Next, we're gonna talk about
interfaces and type aliases.
These are both mechanisms that
TypeScript allows us to use to give
names to our types.
And to pass them across module
boundaries using imports and
exports, similar to how we treat
values in JavaScript modules.
The first concept we're gonna
discuss is called the type alias.
So if you think back to this
syntax that we used for
the object in our success tuple case,
it gets noisy and complicated.
If we use this all over the place,
if we just look back at that function real
quick, I actually made it look
a little bit simpler here.
But look at this return type,
this is just a lot of noisy syntax.
Imagine you have five or six functions
that deal with this type, and
you have this written in your code,
like this.
I just doubled the cognitive burden
here by writing this type explicitly.
And then imagine you have a whole
library dealing with user info, and
it's kind of all over the place.
So what we want to do is
give this type a name, and
type aliases help us do that.
So, we can define a name for the type,
we can define the shape of
a type in a single place.
Similar to how you could have a class
in your JavaScript code base that you
use in a bunch of different places.
But there's only one
place where it's defined.
That is strictly not the case
when we're doing this.
It's almost like instead
of defining a class,
you have object literals
with methods on the object.
And you're using those all over the place,
you have no central definition for those.
It'd be very easy for them to sort of
drift apart at different call sites.
So we wanna have a central
place where this is defined.
And, of course,
we want the benefits of import and export.
I'm gonna open the equivalent
code snippet in our editor here.
So let's say that we have something
that represents an amount, right?
We've got a currency type and a value,
so you could say like 300 Canadian
dollars, something like that.
And let's say we wanted to define
a function called printAmount.
Well, what we've done here is
we've created a type alias.
So we're saying typeAmount =, and
then look at the right side of this.
It's definitely a type, right?
There are no commas here.
This is a string, like string and number,
these are types, they are not values.
This is one of the only times
you will see type information on
the right side of an assignment.
And this is something that will completely
melt away as part of the compile process.
This will get erased from your code,
not your source code,
but when you do your build,
this will just completely disappear.
Because we've defined this and
we've given it a name, look at this,
we can use it in place of what would
have been a literal type like this.
So instead of doing this,
we can just say, that's amount.
We could use this in a bunch
of different places.
You can, of course, export it,
import it, as we'll see later.
So here I've got an object I'm creating
called donation, and it's valid.
So there's no need that I say this
is an amount, it must be an amount.
It's literally just a shorthand for
an explicitly defined type,
there's no other formality to it.
Is asking what are the differences
between types of interfaces.
I promise we will get to that, that is
in this section, we will get there.
So, a type alias,
here's one difference with interfaces.
A type alias can hold any type that
you're able to define in TypeScript.
So we could say,
Something like that, MightBeNull,
string might be null.
You can put whatever you want here,
that's not the case for interfaces,
as we'll see later.
But that is one of the great
powers of a type alias.
If it's a type, you can give it a name.
And then you can import and export.
So if we look at the example from last
chapter where we're flipping a coin.
And we've got this maybeGetUserInfo thing,
and
I've got in all its full glory,
there's your return type.
It's just a lot of syntax here, right?
Lots of square brackets, lots of braces,
it kind of makes you cross
your eyes a little bit.
So there's our flipCoin,
it's heads or tails.
And then maybeGetUserInfo,
there's its return type.
So if we were to model
the return type as a type alias,
We could do it like this,
create a tuple type, right?
UserInfoOutcomeError,
UserInfoOutcomeSuccess.
Then we could union those types together.
And the tooltips get much nicer.
You have words that can explain
what the meaning of this thing is.
It's a little bit like we're no longer
telling someone how to build a watch,
we're telling them what time it is.
We're giving these types a semantic
meaning, as opposed to just
spitting out the contents of
the structure that we're looking for.
Just like variable names, right?
Variables have a name,
and you can write it in such a way that
it conveys the purpose of this thing.
Now you can do that for types as well.
Just think of it like a variable for
types.
So let's talk a little bit how we
can work with these type aliases.
And I'm calling it inheritance for
type aliases.
It's not really inheritance, but
it's sort of how do you build type
aliases based on other type aliases.
And you do that with an intersection type.
So here's an example where we have,
let's say, we have a library that makes
every JavaScript date, gives it
a method on it called getDescription.
So all dates can have descriptions now.
So we could say, all right,
well, this is a special date.
And sorry, to be clear,
not all dates would have descriptions.
We're creating a special date type for
those that have descriptions.
So we would say, all right,
I want everything that's on the date type.
And I also want to add a method to it,
getDescription, which returns a string.
And here we can actually
create a SpecialDate, right?
We're gonna create a new Date, and
we're gonna add a method to it like this.
And look at this, we've got newYearsEve,
it's a SpecialDate, so
the tooltip just got pretty clean.
And here, look,
I've got all of the Date functions,
but there's getDescription, but
getFullYear is still there as well.
These are things that are available
on a conventional Date.
So if you wanna think about this kind of
like inheritance, where we can say, all
right, I have a type alias, I want to make
another type alias that's a subtype of it.
This is a subtype of a Date,
it can pass as a Date.
If you need me to give you a Date, and
I hand you this, you'll be totally happy.
It has getFullYear, it has valueOf,
it can create an ISO 8601 string.
But it's also got some other stuff.
This is actually a more specific type of
Date, cuz it has this extra requirement.
The getDescription method must be on it.